Our group, the Cookie Club, worked well together for this project. Since this was our first time working on a project with no real guidance and starter code, we had a lot of conflicts and confusion but resolved most of it..

The strongest part of our team was the communication. We had constant communication between members of the group. This includes our group chat on Discord where each member can ask questions, receive answers, be notified of important information/updates, have access to meeting notes, give important resources, and be informed of any pull requests going into our dev branch. On top of that group chat, we had meetings every Friday at 3pm to finish our sprint and prepare for the next sprint. During that time we would discuss troubles we had and what we expected to see in our app by the next sprint.

Probably the worst aspect of the project was the hardware problems. We all have different laptops and phone screens. Some of our laptops had difficulties running Android Studio, or the emulator which was essential to our project. On top of that, our app was hard to configure to be scalable in regards to our varying aspect ratios of our phones. Most of the pages were designed with a specific phone in mind and therefore in the future we could consider having a design applicable to more phones. Regarding the hardware it is difficult to change but we tried to adjust teamwork realistically to account for hardware differences. Also, we found that using Microsoft Teams was more of a hassle rather than beneficial. We all communicated through our prefered medium, Discord, and were informed of each other’s progress through it. Microsoft Teams was just a tool that we found unhelpful and burdensome as we had already set up Discord as our main communication application.

If we continue working as a team in the future, our process would remain very similar. We would start a sprint with a meeting to discuss the scale of our sprint. What do we expect to have done? What can each person contribute? Is anyone particularly busy? If so, how much time can they work on the project? We will start the sprint on jira and everyone will update Jira on the progress of their task. In addition, we will have discord group chat accessible to all members to write about pull requests, important commits, and questions. We then conduct a sprint meeting halfway through the sprint to discuss the progress. On the final day of the sprint, we meet up once again to test the app, and put a pull request of the app into the master branch.We then continue to discuss our next sprint and how we can improve the process.
