Competition 1: https://www.shred.app/

    Shred is an IOS app that allows its users to create complete workout programs for its users with some basic gym equipment. The app allows users to set personalized goals and tries to assist the users in achieving them, in addition to helping them get shredded at the gym. The app is initially free, but limits the users to a fewer workout options. For more varied workouts the users can pay $16.49 a month, or $129.99 a year to access unlimited workouts. Additionally, the app offers different subscription options like the SHRED UNLIMITED. It costs $134.99 and seems to offer personal training. The app itself has a rating of 4.6 out of 5 on the Apple Store with 418 ratings.

    The biggest difference between our app, and the Shred app is the main focus. Shred’s main focus is on the gym, and helping their users get shredded. Our app focuses on motivating users to work out, and live healthy. The Shred app uses competitive stats, or a social aspect to motivate users as it lets you connect with friends. Its focuses on letting users communicate together to plan workouts, or simply compete. Our app  motivates users by making workouts seem like a game. Our app gamifies the workouts to offer motivation in getting coins for another aspect of our app. Finally our app is on android while their app is on IOS.

    Our app is better for users that lack a strong goal or lack motivation to going to the gym to workout, or those that are not looking to being shredded, but rather workout to get healthy. These users are unsure if they want to go the gym to workout, or are inexperienced with exercising. Our app has less focus on competing with friends to get shredded but is focused on improving the health of its users, while offering different motivation by making workouts more akin to games. I don’t believe Shred focus on these users, because as their name states, their app has a large focus on helping users get buff through competition, rather than simply improving health. If Shred reduces the amount of focus on getting shredded, and more on making the workout seems fun, then they are more easily benefit different users.

Competition 2: https://keelo.com/

    Keelo is an app that is both on the Android, and IOS stores. It is an app that offers high-intensity interval training (HIIT) workouts. HIIT is a type of workout that arranges hard workouts in short bursts to help lose weight, and gain muscle. A typical HIIT workout is very intense; you push yourself to workout for a short 20-90 second burst then rest for a short period of time. The Keelo app allows users to swap moves depending on skill or available equipment, but is best suited for working out in the gym. Before the workout the app allows users to preview each session, and see a functional body map to show which muscles group are being hit during the workout. The app offers a 2 week free trial, but then requires a subscription. It offers: a monthly, 3 month, and yearly subscription at, $16.99, $40.99, and $124.99 respectively. The app has a 4.7 out of 5 with 73 ratings on the Apple Store, and a 4.3 out of 5 with 229 ratings on the Google Play Store. Additionally the Keelo app allows its users to connect the app with an Apple Watch to monitor their heart rate, and has a rewards program which offers real-life gear, monthly prizes, and referrals.

    For differences, the Keelo app has a large focus on HIIT gym based workouts which are designed to burn fat, and get the person shredded. Our app does not focus on HIIT workouts rather it goes uses more conventional workouts that are not as intense, and does not require users to go to the gym. Their app also uses rewards like gear, and prizes to motivate users, while our app uses gamification of working out as the main motivation. Their app also offers ways to connect the app with other electronics like an Apple Watch to monitor stats like heart rate.

    Our app targets users that are less experienced in working out, as they might not know what HIIT workouts are, or users that are not sure that they want to do such intense workouts. Their app also is more on demand, letting users workout on the app when they want to, while our app has long term fitness focus as it has daily set workouts, and goals. The Keelo apps main focus is to offer users access to HIIT workouts as that is the main draw of the app. It does not focus on other users that are not drawn to those types of workouts as it would be counterproductive to their app. But if they offered a more varied type of workout that are not just HIIT workouts then they can target a larger audience.

Competition 3: https://www.mapmyfitness.com/

    Map My Fitness is an app that is offered on both IOS, and Android. It is an exercise tracking app for people new to fitness. The app allows users to record any physical activity you do on the app to let you track the activity, time spent, and calories burned. The app is initially free, and offers a monthly subscription that is $5.99, and a yearly subscription that is $29.99. These subscription gives the users access to additional stats like heart rate, and cadence. The app has a 4.8 out of 5 with 39.6k ratings on the Apple Store, and a 4.4 out of 5 with 45.7k ratings on the Google Play Store. The app allows users to build their own routine with workouts, and has a social aspect that allows users to create challenges, or find support from others. Additionally, the app also works with other electronics like: Fitbit, Apple Watch, Android Wear, Armour Smart Shoes, and etc.

    The main difference between our app, and Map My Fitness is the social aspect of their app, and their focus. Their app is created by Under Armour so it has a strong connection with Under Armour products, and using their products to help better track your progress, and workouts. Additionally it social aspect in sharing updates, running routes, and trying to promote working out as a group activity differs from out app. It uses the social aspect to motivate users to exercise, while our app uses goals, and making the workouts more entertaining like a game as its motivators.

    Our app is better for users that do not find the social aspect of exercising as a strong motivation, rather they wish to learn, find entertainment through exercise. The Map My Fitness app feels more like an offshoot of Under Armour advertising as it seems to link exercising, and working out to Under Armour equipment. Their app also targets users that are new to fitness, but has a more targeted focus on social activity while our app targets new users that want working out seem more entertaining. If Map My Fitness reduces the social aspect of their app, and reduce their focus on getting healthy through social challenges then they can more easily target these users.
