Process

For sprint 0, it was imperative that we were able to meet person since it allowed us to create mockups
that we could all add to while also making discussion a lot easier. We met in the campus library study rooms weekly for 2 or more hours depending on what we needed to get covered. The first thing we did was write onto the whiteboard what we wanted to get accomplished for the day from project ideas to user stories. When we couldn't meet in person, we communicated online through discord and posted images of any mockups or notes that we made during our meetings. This was especially helpful as we could work indivudally based on the ideas that were decided on together. Additionally, we could show off our finished deliverables to our team members to critique and edit.

When it came to deciding what we were going to do for the project we left the floor open to any ideas that any of our members had. We then wrote them on the board until we accumulated a substantial list of possible projects. Next, we took a majority vote on which idea we liked the most and continued to discuss it into more detail, making changes where necessary so that the decision to move forward with it was unanimous.

The project that was decided on was an android app that combined both elements of a workout app and a
virtual pet game where working out rewards you with money that can be spent on the pet. We broke up our discussion of the app into the game portion and the workout portion. From there, we wrote down every idea that each of our members had onto the whiteboard until there were enough ideas that we had a solid framework for all of our apps features. We then removed any ideas that we felt weren't necessary or didn't work with our vision of the app. This way we had a concise list of features that we all agreed on and that we could turn into a set of user stories.

When it came to creating user stories, we realized it was difficult to know whether a single feature could be encapsulated into a single story, or whether it needed to be broken down into multiple. It was also a challenge to figure out which user stories had dependecies on other user stories and therefore needed to have their priorities adjusted to reflect that. For example, implementing the personalized workout plans requires a database for the users profile first. For that reason, dependencies was a crucial part of our discussion for the priorities of user stories. For the points, we followed the planning poker system using the series of numbers [0, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 20, 40, 100]. After the numbers were submitted, we reviewed the largest descripencies between each of our team members and discussed their reasonings for the score that they gave. On average it took us about 3 rounds of voting for each user story to come to a consensus.

For the next phase, we need to ensure that during our weekly group meetings we decide on what should be finished by our next meeting. For sprint 0, we ended up with a lot of the deliverables needing to be worked on for the last day of the sprint. Agreeing on what needs to be finished will help ensure that we make steady progress throughout each sprint rather than all towards the end.